Problem
What Perclias solves
Doctors lose time manually capturing patient conversation data. Perclias acts as an AI clinical assistant — recording, transcribing, analyzing, and surfacing relevant medical knowledge so doctors can focus on diagnosis rather than note-taking.

Data layer
Medication knowledge base
BeautifulSoup + Selenium scraped MedlinePlus for drug/medication data. Pydantic validated the schema. Apache Airflow DAGs orchestrated the pipeline. Data landed in Snowflake for structured SQL queries, and embeddings went to Pinecone for semantic vector search.

AI layer
Conversation intelligence
Doctor-patient audio is captured, uploaded to AWS S3, then transcribed via OpenAI Whisper. The transcript is processed with LangChain + GPT to extract symptoms, summarize findings, and generate recommendations — grounded in the Pinecone knowledge base (RAG).

Vision layer
Medical image analysis
Google Gemini Vision Pro analyzes uploaded medical images (X-rays, scans, etc.) and returns structured clinical observations — helping doctors get AI-assisted second opinions on visual diagnostics.

Interface + auth
Doctor-facing app
Streamlit powers the UI — login, patient management, audio recording, image upload, and chat. Firebase handles authentication. The app was deployed on Google Cloud Platform (GCE VM).


My Contribution
"I owned three things. First, the entire OpenAI integration — setting up the Whisper transcription pipeline where audio gets uploaded to S3 and converted to text, and building the LangChain RAG chain that connects the transcript to GPT-4 with Pinecone context injected in between. Second, the Pinecone vector database — I handled chunking the medication data into manageable pieces, generating the embeddings using OpenAI's embedding model, and upserting them into the Pinecone index. Third, the deployment — I containerized the Streamlit app with Docker and deployed it on a GCP virtual machine so the team had a live accessible URL to demo. My teammates handled the web scraping pipeline and Snowflake on their end."

Open AI

Whisper - Audio transcription pipeline
1. Doctor records consultation audio in the Streamlit UI. The audio file (mp3/wav) is uploaded directly to an AWS S3 bucket you configured.
2. S3 pre-signed URL is generated so the file can be securely passed to the OpenAI API without exposing your bucket publicly.
3. OpenAI Whisper API (whisper-1 model) receives the audio and returns a full text transcript. Whisper handles accents, medical terminology, and mixed-language speech better than most ASR systems.
4. Transcript is passed downstream to the LangChain RAG chain for clinical analysis.
response = openai.Audio.transcribe(
  model="whisper-1",
  file=audio_file
)
transcript = response["text"]

LangChain + GPT-4 - RAG chain for clinical reasoning
1. Transcript embedding — the incoming transcript is embedded using OpenAI's text-embedding-ada-002 model to generate a query vector.
2. Pinecone retrieval — the query vector is used to fetch the top-k most similar medication/symptom records from Pinecone (semantic search). These become the "context."
3. Prompt construction via LangChain — a RetrievalQA chain is built that injects the retrieved context alongside the transcript into a structured system prompt for GPT-4.
4. GPT-4 generates output — a structured clinical summary: symptoms identified, possible diagnoses, and medication/treatment recommendations grounded in the retrieved data.

chain = RetrievalQA.from_chain_type(
  llm=ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4"),
  retriever=vectorstore.as_retriever(k=5),
  chain_type="stuff"
)
result = chain.run(transcript)

PineCone

Embeddings - What you built and why it matters
Pinecone stores high-dimensional vector representations of medication text so GPT-4 can retrieve relevant knowledge at inference time — instead of being limited to what it learned during training. I owned this entire embedding pipeline.
Step by step - How you built the index
1. Raw medication data came from Snowflake — structured records scraped from MedlinePlus by your teammate Shubh (drug names, indications, side effects, dosages).
2. Chunking — long text fields were split into smaller chunks (~300–500 tokens) so embeddings are semantically focused. You used LangChain's RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter for this.
3. Embedding generation — each chunk was passed through OpenAI's text-embedding-ada-002 model to produce a 1536-dimensional float vector.
4. Upsert to Pinecone — vectors were upserted in batches with metadata (drug name, source URL) so retrieved results are traceable back to their source.
5. At query time — a patient transcript vector queries the index using cosine similarity. Top-k results (k=5) are returned and injected into the GPT-4 prompt as context.

GCP Deployment

Docker - Containerizing the Streamlit app
I wrote a Dockerfile that packages the Streamlit app, its Python dependencies, and environment config into a portable container. This ensures the app runs identically on your local machine and on GCP.
FROM python:3.10-slim
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
COPY . .
EXPOSE 8501
CMD ["streamlit", "run", "main.py", "--server.port=8501"]

GCP - Deployment on Google Compute Engine
1. GCE VM provisioned — you spun up a Linux VM on Google Compute Engine (e2-medium or similar), which gives a persistent public IP address.
2. Docker installed on VM — SSH'd in, installed Docker, pulled the image or built it directly on the instance.
3. Firewall rule added — opened port 8501 in GCP's VPC firewall so the app is reachable at the public IP.
4. App runs at static IP — the live URL was http://35.227.43.169:8501/. Docker was run with --restart=always so it auto-recovers if the container crashes.
5. Secrets managed — API keys (OpenAI, Pinecone, Firebase) were injected as environment variables via docker run -e flags or a .env file, never hardcoded in source.

docker-compose - Multi-service orchestration
The repo has a docker-compose.yml — this lets me define the Streamlit service, environment variables, and port mappings in one file and start everything with docker-compose up.
AI Models

OpenAI is the company that provides AI models as a service via API. Think of it as the vendor.
GPT-4 is a specific model made by OpenAI — it's the large language model that actually reads text and generates intelligent responses. In Perclias, GPT-4 is the brain that reads the patient transcript + retrieved medication context and writes the clinical summary.
Whisper is also an OpenAI model, but a completely different one — it's specialized for audio-to-text transcription, not text generation. So OpenAI gives you two models here: Whisper for ears, GPT-4 for reasoning.
LangChain is not an AI model at all. It's an open-source Python framework that helps you orchestrate and connect AI models into pipelines. It doesn't think or generate anything on its own — it's the plumbing.

In Perclias specifically, the division of labor is:
Whisper → converts doctor-patient audio into text
LangChain → takes that text, queries Pinecone for relevant medication context, assembles the prompt with that context, and calls GPT-4
GPT-4 → reads the assembled prompt and generates the clinical summary
